---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Top Diets of 2015"
description: "Looking for a diet that works? Check out these!"
author: "Stefan Zier"
coverImage: "diet-banner.png"
---

Throughout our modern society, we are constantly surrounded by commercials that proclaim there is a new and quicker way to get healthy. Unfortunately, the majority of these statements are simply fads that are positioned in a way to lure people into spending money on something that is designed not to work. Fortunately, there are a few diets that have proven their worth over the years, and recent studies confirm them as still relevant. 

The DASH Diet is currently advocated by WebMD [here]() as 2015’s most reliable method. DASH represents an acronym that stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. Essentially, it emphasizes an overall diet for health and wellness.

> The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute developed the diet to help people prevent and treat high blood pressure. It emphasizes eating lots of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods while reducing salt.

The DASH Diet can be better explained in a few simple key points. 

* Eat more fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy foods
* Cut back on foods that are high in saturated fat, cholesterol, and trans fats
* Eat more whole-grain foods, fish, poultry, and nuts
* Limit sodium, sweets, sugary drinks, and red meats

On the other hand, another diet method has been promoted for its high ratings in nutrition and heart health. The [Therapeutic Lifestyle Diet (TLC)](http://health.usnews.com/best-diet/tlc-diet) diet is currently being advertised by the U.S. News for Health. The diet was created by the National Institutes of Health’s National Cholesterol Education Program and is endorsed by the American Heart Association as a method to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. 

> The key is cutting back sharply on fat, particularly saturated fat. Saturated fat (think fatty meat, whole-milk dairy and fried foods) bumps up bad cholesterol, which increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. That, along with strictly limiting daily dietary cholesterol intake and getting more fiber, can help people manage high cholesterol, often without medication.

Quickly reading the aforementioned statement can certainly confirm that this diet is very clean. Furthermore, it is heart healthy and government-endorsed so consumers can be confident knowing it isn’t a fad. Interestingly, the TLC diet can be customized to accommodate Vegetarian, Vegan, Gluten-free, Kosher, and even Halal preferences. 

Lastly, the [Mediterranean Diet](http://health.usnews.com/best-diet/mediterranean-diet) is promised to lose weight while avoiding chronic diseases.

>  It’s generally accepted that the folks in the countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea live longer and suffer less than most Americans from cancer and cardiovascular ailments.

This diet is famous for its simplicity. All of one has to do is eat produce, nuts, and other healthful foods while maintaining an active lifestyle. Furthermore, this diet is shaped by the user and therefore customized.

> Because this is an eating pattern – not a structured diet – you’re on your own to figure out how many calories you should eat to lose or maintain your weight, what you’ll do to stay active and how you’ll shape your Mediterranean menu.

This is an interesting approach as the user isn’t forced to follow strict guidelines other than a daily regime of exercise. Exercise entails walking, gardening, pilates, or anything that is easy to actively follow. 

As you can see, all three diets are advocated by reputable sources and offer a wide array of benefits. If you’re looking for a diet relatively easy to follow, nutritiously safe, effective for weight loss and protective against diabetes and heart disease, consider the three above and attempt to make the methods apart of your daily lifestyle.